# Branch Management

Adhering to best practices for branch management is crucial to ensure a smooth development process. Following proper conventions can help maintain an organized codebase, reduce merge conflicts, and streamline collaboration between team members.

## Branch Strategy ##

The main idea behind the Git flow branching strategy is to isolate your work into different types of branches. There are five different branch types in total:
- Main
- Develop
- Feature
- Release
- Hotfix

The two primary branches in Git Flow are main and develop. There are three types of supporting branches with different intended purposes: feature, release, and hotfix.

## Protected Branch ##

To prevent accidental deletion or unwanted changes to primary branches like main or develop, you can implement branch protection policies on your remote repository. provide options to configure branch protection rules.

- Requiring pull requests and code reviews before merging changes
- Enforcing status checks (e.g., passing tests or successful builds) before a merge is allowed
- Restricting direct pushes to the protected branch
- Disallowing force pushes and branch deletions

## **The branch formatting should be structured as follows**

```
<type>/<scope>
```

## **Type**

| Type     | Description                                           |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| feature  | new feature                                           |
| hotfix   | fix bug                                               |
| release  | versions of production code have been deployed        |

## **Scope**

Scope is the main purpose of telling what to do with this branch. it is a broad description to give a picture of what needs to do with this branch.

## **Example**

```
feat/product-management
```

```
hotfix/user-profile
```

```
release/v1.0.1
```
